components/feature/accounts-push/README.md, before:

# [Android Components](../../../README.md) > Feature > Accounts-Push

Feature component for sending tabs to other devices with a registered FxA Account.

## Usage

### Setting up the dependency

Use Gradle to download the library from [maven.mozilla.org](https://maven.mozilla.org/) ([Setup repository](../../../README.md#maven-repository)):

```Groovy
implementation "org.mozilla.components:feature-accounts-push:{latest-version}"
```

## Usage

In order to make use of the send tab features here, it's required to have an an FxA Account setup.
See the [service-firefox-accounts](../../service/firefox-accounts/README.md) for more information how to set this up.

```kotlin

val sendTabUseCases = SendTabUseCases(fxaAccountManager)

// Send to a particular device
sendTabUseCases.sendToDeviceAsync("1234", TabData("Mozilla", "https://mozilla.org"))

// Send to all devices
sendTabUseCases.sendToAllAsync(TabData("Mozilla", "https://mozilla.org"))

// Send multiple tabs to devices works too..
sendTabUseCases.sendToDeviceAsync("1234", listof(tab1, tab2))
sendTabUseCases.sendToAllAsync(listof(tab1, tab2))

```

To receive tabs:

```kotlin
SendTabFeature(fxaAccountManager) { device, tabs ->
  // handle tab data here.
}
```

### Push Support

Over time, push registration information can become stale on an FxA server in various ways,
(e.g. registration expires from long intervals of no use).

To counter this, the FxA server can notify us on the next sync to force registration to occur
in order to fix the problem. Therefore, if FxA and Push are used together,
include the support feature as well:

```kotlin
FxaPushSupportFeature(context, fxaAccountManager, autoPushFeature)
```

## License

    This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public
    License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this
    file, You can obtain one at http://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/

Commit message:

[components] Close https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/android-components/issues/9829: Move IO work in FxaPushSupportFeature to a coroutine
The `FxaPushSupportFeature` needs to generate, read and write a push
scope (identifier) to disk. This work was meant to be done lazily and
not during app startup. However, if a Sync account is setup then the IO
work is done immediately during the initial account manager
initialization at startup.

In this patch, we delegate this IO work to a new `PushScopeProperty`
that retrieves the value from disk using a provided `CoroutineScope`.

components/feature/accounts-push/README.md, after:

# [Android Components](../../../README.md) > Feature > Accounts-Push

Feature component for sending tabs to other devices with a registered FxA Account.

## Usage

### Setting up the dependency

Use Gradle to download the library from [maven.mozilla.org](https://maven.mozilla.org/) ([Setup repository](../../../README.md#maven-repository)):

```Groovy
implementation "org.mozilla.components:feature-accounts-push:{latest-version}"
```

## Usage

In order to make use of the send tab features here, it's required to have an an FxA Account setup.
See the [service-firefox-accounts](../../service/firefox-accounts/README.md) for more information how to set this up.

```kotlin

val sendTabUseCases = SendTabUseCases(fxaAccountManager)

// Send to a particular device
sendTabUseCases.sendToDeviceAsync("1234", TabData("Mozilla", "https://mozilla.org"))

// Send to all devices
sendTabUseCases.sendToAllAsync(TabData("Mozilla", "https://mozilla.org"))

// Send multiple tabs to devices works too..
sendTabUseCases.sendToDeviceAsync("1234", listof(tab1, tab2))
sendTabUseCases.sendToAllAsync(listof(tab1, tab2))

```

To receive tabs:

```kotlin
SendTabFeature(fxaAccountManager) { device, tabs ->
  // handle tab data here.
}
```

### Push Support

Over time, push registration information can become stale on an FxA server in various ways,
(e.g. registration expires from long intervals of no use).

To counter this, the FxA server can notify us on the next sync to force registration to occur
in order to fix the problem. Therefore, if FxA and Push are used together,
include the support feature as well:

```kotlin
val feature = FxaPushSupportFeature(context, fxaAccountManager, autoPushFeature)

// initialize the feature; this can be done immediately if needed.
feature.initalize()
```

## License

    This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public
    License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this
    file, You can obtain one at http://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/
