components/feature/fxsuggest/README.md, before:

# [Android Components](../../../README.md) > Feature > Firefox Suggest

A component for accessing Firefox Suggest search suggestions.

[Firefox Suggest](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/firefox-suggest-faq) provides suggestions for sponsored and web content in the address bar. Suggestions are downloaded, stored, and matched on-device.

## Usage

### Setting up the dependency

Use Gradle to download the library from [maven.mozilla.org](https://maven.mozilla.org/) ([Setup repository](../../../README.md#maven-repository)):

```Groovy
implementation "org.mozilla.components:feature-fxsuggest:{latest-version}"
```

## Facts

This component emits the following [Facts](../../support/base/README.md#Facts):

| Action      | Item                       | Extras            | Description                     |
|-------------|----------------------------|-------------------|---------------------------------|
| Click | amp_suggestion_clicked |  | a Firefox Suggestion has been clicked |

## License

    This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public
    License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this
    file, You can obtain one at http://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/

Commit message:

Bug 1858542 - Introduce `FxSuggestFactsMiddleware`.
This commit builds on bug 1857092 to record impressions for sponsored
Firefox Suggest search suggestions, and moves the logic for recording
clicks to the same middleware.

An impression means, "did the user see a suggestion when they finished
engaging with the awesomebar?" A "finished engagement" means the user
navigated to a URL, a search results page, or a shown suggestion.

We don't record impressions for:

* Suggestions that the user sees as they're typing.
* Abandoned engagements, when the user dismisses the awesomebar without
  navigating to a destination.

If the user taps on a Firefox Suggest suggestion, we record an
impression _and_ a click for that suggestion. If they tap on any other
suggestion, or navigate to a URL or search results page, we record an
impression only.

The new `FxSuggestFactsMiddleware` in this commit observes the
`EngagementFinished` action added in the last commit, and emits facts
for impressions and clicks.

components/feature/fxsuggest/README.md, after:

# [Android Components](../../../README.md) > Feature > Firefox Suggest

A component for accessing Firefox Suggest search suggestions.

[Firefox Suggest](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/firefox-suggest-faq) provides suggestions for sponsored and web content in the address bar. Suggestions are downloaded, stored, and matched on-device.

## Usage

### Setting up the dependency

Use Gradle to download the library from [maven.mozilla.org](https://maven.mozilla.org/) ([Setup repository](../../../README.md#maven-repository)):

```Groovy
implementation "org.mozilla.components:feature-fxsuggest:{latest-version}"
```

## Facts

This component emits the following [Facts](../../support/base/README.md#Facts):

| Action        | Item                       | Extras                        | Description                                                                    |
|---------------|----------------------------|-------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `INTERACTION` | `amp_suggestion_clicked`   | `suggestion_clicked_extras`   | The user clicked on a Firefox Suggestion.                                      |
| `DISPLAY`     | `amp_suggestion_impressed` | `suggestion_impressed_extras` | The user saw a Firefox Suggestion just before they navigated to a destination. |

#### `suggestion_clicked_extras`

| Key                | Type                       | Value                                                      |
|--------------------|----------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|
| `interaction_info` | `FxSuggestInteractionInfo` | Type-specific information to record for this suggestion.   |
| `position`         | `Long`                     | The 1-based position of this suggestion in the awesomebar. |


#### `suggestion_impressed_extras`

| Key                | Type                       | Value                                                      |
|--------------------|----------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|
| `interaction_info` | `FxSuggestInteractionInfo` | Type-specific information to record for this suggestion.   |
| `position`         | `Long`                     | The 1-based position of this suggestion in the awesomebar. |
| `is_clicked`       | `Boolean`                  | Whether the user clicked on this suggestion.               |

## License

    This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public
    License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this
    file, You can obtain one at http://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/
